Docs: Reorganize Configuration Documentation (#13837)
eslint/eslint: docs/user-guide/configuring/configuration-files.md

```js
{
    "env": {
        "browser": true
    },
    "rules": {
        // Override our default settings just for this directory
        "eqeqeq": "warn",
        "strict": "off"
    }
}
```

## Adding Shared Settings

ESLint supports adding shared settings into configuration files. You can add `settings` object to ESLint configuration file and it will be supplied to every rule being executed. This may be useful if you are adding custom rules and want them to have access to the same information and be easily configurable.

In JSON:

```json
{
    "settings": {
        "sharedData": "Hello"
    }
}
```

And in YAML:

```yaml
---
  settings:
    sharedData: "Hello"
```

## Cascading and Hierarchy

When using `.eslintrc.*` and `package.json` files for configuration, you can take advantage of configuration cascading. Suppose you have the following structure:

```text
your-project
├── .eslintrc.json
├── lib
│ └── source.js
└─┬ tests
  ├── .eslintrc.json
  └── test.js
```

> The configuration cascade works by using the closest `.eslintrc` file to the file being linted as the highest priority, then any configuration files in the parent directory, and so on. When you run ESLint on this project, all files in `lib/` will use the `.eslintrc` file at the root of the project as their configuration. When ESLint traverses into the `tests/` directory, it will then use `your-project/tests/.eslintrc` in addition to `your-project/.eslintrc`. So `your-project/tests/test.js` is linted based on the combination of the two `.eslintrc` files in its directory hierarchy, with the closest one taking priority. In this way, you can have project-level ESLint settings and also have directory-specific overrides.

Author: Does something like the following work?

> The configuration cascade works by using the project-wide `eslintrc` file to the file being linted then any configuration files in the parent directory, and so on.

> The configuration cascade works by using the closest `.eslintrc` file to the file being linted as the highest priority, then any configuration files in the parent directory, and so on. When you run ESLint on this project, all files in `lib/` will use the `.eslintrc` file at the root of the project as their configuration. When ESLint traverses into the `tests/` directory, it will then use `your-project/tests/.eslintrc` in addition to `your-project/.eslintrc`. So `your-project/tests/test.js` is linted based on the combination of the two `.eslintrc` files in its directory hierarchy, with the closest one taking priority. In this way, you can have project-level ESLint settings and also have directory-specific overrides.

Reviewer: I don't think that suggestion is specific enough, but we're on the right track. The following is too wordy, but maybe someone else can find a way to pare it down for me?

> ESLint allows for configuration files in subdirectories to override values in the project-wide configuration when linting files in that subdirectory. Please note that only the configuration options defined in the subdirectories will be overridden. More specifically, ESLint starts from the  root configuration (the configuration file with `root: true` defined, usually in the root directory of the project), and if it finds a configuration file in a subdirectory, it will merge those values into the root configuration when linting the files in that subdirectory.

> The configuration cascade works by using the closest `.eslintrc` file to the file being linted as the highest priority, then any configuration files in the parent directory, and so on. When you run ESLint on this project, all files in `lib/` will use the `.eslintrc` file at the root of the project as their configuration. When ESLint traverses into the `tests/` directory, it will then use `your-project/tests/.eslintrc` in addition to `your-project/.eslintrc`. So `your-project/tests/test.js` is linted based on the combination of the two `.eslintrc` files in its directory hierarchy, with the closest one taking priority. In this way, you can have project-level ESLint settings and also have directory-specific overrides.

Author: @nzakas This is the only issue that needs to be resolved.

> The configuration cascade works by using the closest `.eslintrc` file to the file being linted as the highest priority, then any configuration files in the parent directory, and so on. When you run ESLint on this project, all files in `lib/` will use the `.eslintrc` file at the root of the project as their configuration. When ESLint traverses into the `tests/` directory, it will then use `your-project/tests/.eslintrc` in addition to `your-project/.eslintrc`. So `your-project/tests/test.js` is linted based on the combination of the two `.eslintrc` files in its directory hierarchy, with the closest one taking priority. In this way, you can have project-level ESLint settings and also have directory-specific overrides.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I think we can make this a bit clearer. Here's my take:

> The configuration cascade works based on the location of the file being linted. If there is a `.eslintrc` file in the same directory as the file being linted, then that configuration takes precedence. ESLint then searches up the directory structure, merging any `.eslintrc` files it finds along the way until reaching either a `.eslintrc` file with `root: true` or the root directory.

```js
{
    "root": true
}
```

And in YAML:

```yaml
---
  root: true
```

For example, consider `projectA` which has `"root": true` set in the `.eslintrc` file in the `lib/` directory.  In this case, while linting `main.js`, the configurations within `lib/` will be used, but the `.eslintrc` file in `projectA/` will not.

```text
home
└── user
    └── projectA
        ├── .eslintrc.json  <- Not used
        └── lib
            ├── .eslintrc.json  <- { "root": true }
            └── main.js
```

The complete configuration hierarchy, from highest precedence to lowest precedence, is as follows:

1. Inline configuration
    1. `/*eslint-disable*/` and `/*eslint-enable*/`
    1. `/*global*/`
    1. `/*eslint*/`
    1. `/*eslint-env*/`
1. Command line options (or CLIEngine equivalents):
    1. `--global`
    1. `--rule`
    1. `--env`
    1. `-c`, `--config`
1. Project-level configuration:
    1. `.eslintrc.*` or `package.json` file in the same directory as linted file

>     1. Continue searching for `.eslintrc` and `package.json` files in ancestor directories (parent has the highest precedence, then grandparent, etc.), up to and including the root directory or until a config with `"root": true` is found.

Author: Oh yes. It's pretty clear without the text in the parantheses.

The `extends` property value is either:

* a string that specifies a configuration (either a path to a config file, the name of a shareable config, `eslint:recommended`, or `eslint:all`)
* an array of strings where each additional configuration extends the preceding configurations

ESLint extends configurations recursively, so a base configuration can also have an `extends` property. Relative paths and shareable config names in an `extends` property are resolved from the location of the config file where they appear.

The `rules` property can do any of the following to extend (or override) the set of rules:

* enable additional rules
* change an inherited rule's severity without changing its options:
    * Base config: `"eqeqeq": ["error", "allow-null"]`
    * Derived config: `"eqeqeq": "warn"`
    * Resulting actual config: `"eqeqeq": ["warn", "allow-null"]`
* override options for rules from base configurations:
    * Base config: `"quotes": ["error", "single", "avoid-escape"]`
    * Derived config: `"quotes": ["error", "single"]`
    * Resulting actual config: `"quotes": ["error", "single"]

### Using `eslint:recommended`

> Using `"eslint:recommended"` in the `extends` property enables a subset of core rules that report common problems (these rules are identified with a checkmark (recommended) on the [rules page](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/)). The `eslint:recommended` config only changes with major versions of ESLint.

Author: Done. Thank you!!!

> If your configuration extends the `eslint:recommended`, be sure to review the reported problems after upgrading to a new major version of ESLint before you use the `--fix` option on the [command line]((https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface)#fix). Doing so ensures you'll be aware of the new changes ESLint might make to your code.

Author: So, we can simply remove this paragraph as it is a clearly-understood practice? Or do we rephrase it in a way that it becomes more generic? What do you suggest?

> If your configuration extends the `eslint:recommended`, be sure to review the reported problems after upgrading to a new major version of ESLint before you use the `--fix` option on the [command line]((https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface)#fix). Doing so ensures you'll be aware of the new changes ESLint might make to your code.

Reviewer: I personally think it's fine to just remove it. @nzakas thoughts?

> If your configuration extends the `eslint:recommended`, be sure to review the reported problems after upgrading to a new major version of ESLint before you use the `--fix` option on the [command line]((https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface)#fix). Doing so ensures you'll be aware of the new changes ESLint might make to your code.

Reviewer 2: I'm fine with removing, too.

> Here's an example of extending `eslint:recommended` to override some of the default options:

Author: This seems good! Thank you.

Example of a configuration file in JavaScript format:

```js
module.exports = {
    "extends": "eslint:recommended",
    "rules": {
        // enable additional rules
        "indent": ["error", 4],
        "linebreak-style": ["error", "unix"],
        "quotes": ["error", "double"],
        "semi": ["error", "always"],

        // override default options for rules from base configurations

>         "comma-dangle": ["error", "always"],

Author: Can we use `for-direction` or `no-empty` instead?

Also, can you help me a little with those? I'm not so sure how to actually use these codes in a file, so I might make a mistake.

>         "comma-dangle": ["error", "always"],

Reviewer: `for-direction` sounds good! we should be able to replace this line with `"for-direction": "off",` :)

# Configuration Files

* [Configuration File Formats](#configuration-file-formats)
* [Using Configuration Files](#using-configuration-files)
* [Adding Shared Settings](#adding-shared-settings)
* [Cascading and Hierarchy](#cascading-and-hierarchy)
* [Extending Configuration Files](#extending-configuration-files)
* [Configuration Based on Glob Patterns](#configuration-based-on-glob-patterns)
* [Personal Configuration Files](#personal-configuration-files)

## Configuration File Formats

ESLint supports configuration files in several formats:

* **JavaScript** - use `.eslintrc.js` and export an object containing your configuration.

> * **JavaScript (ESM)** - use `.eslintrc.cjs` when running ESLint in JavaScript packages that specify `"type":"module"` in their `package.json`. Note that ESLint does not support ESM configuration at this time.

Reviewer 3: This was added per https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/43. It's basically the only way to use ESLint in `"type": "module"` packages at the moment.

> * **JavaScript (ESM)** - use `.eslintrc.cjs` when running ESLint in JavaScript packages that specify `"type":"module"` in their `package.json`. Note that ESLint does not support ESM configuration at this time.

Author: Does this mean we're keeping it as it is rn?
@mdjermanovic @kaicataldo

> * **JavaScript (ESM)** - use `.eslintrc.cjs` when running ESLint in JavaScript packages that specify `"type":"module"` in their `package.json`. Note that ESLint does not support ESM configuration at this time.

Reviewer 3: I think we should keep this.

* **YAML** - use `.eslintrc.yaml` or `.eslintrc.yml` to define the configuration structure.
* **JSON** - use `.eslintrc.json` to define the configuration structure. ESLint's JSON files also allow JavaScript-style comments.
* **Deprecated** - use `.eslintrc`, which can be either JSON or YAML.
* **package.json** - create an `eslintConfig` property in your `package.json` file and define your configuration there.

If there are multiple configuration files in the same directory, ESLint will only use one. The priority order is as follows:

1. `.eslintrc.js`

> 1. `.eslintrc.cjs`

Reviewer 3: This was implemented in https://github.com/eslint/eslint/pull/12321, per https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/43.

> 1. `.eslintrc.cjs`

Author: Does this mean we're keeping it as it is rn?
@mdjermanovic @kaicataldo

> 1. `.eslintrc.cjs`

Reviewer 3: > Does this mean we're keeping it as it is rn?

Yes, it works.

1. `.eslintrc.yaml`
1. `.eslintrc.yml`
1. `.eslintrc.json`
1. `.eslintrc`
1. `package.json`

## Using Configuration Files

There are two ways to use configuration files.

> The first way to use configuration files is via `.eslintrc.*` and `package.json` files. ESLint will automatically look for them in the directory of the file to be linted, and in successive parent directories all the way up to the root directory of the filesystem (unless `root: true` is specified). This option is useful when you want different configurations for different parts of a project or when you want others to be able to use ESLint directly without needing to remember to pass in the configuration file.

Author: "This option" refers to the use of `.eslintrc.*` and `package.json` files.
Is this technically correct though? If it is, I can edit the sentence something like this:

`.eslintrc.*` and `package.json` files can be useful when you want different configurations for different parts of a project or...

> The first way to use configuration files is via `.eslintrc.*` and `package.json` files. ESLint will automatically look for them in the directory of the file to be linted, and in successive parent directories all the way up to the root directory of the filesystem (unless `root: true` is specified). This option is useful when you want different configurations for different parts of a project or when you want others to be able to use ESLint directly without needing to remember to pass in the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: I think maybe just saying "Configuration files can be useful..." would be clear enough.

The second is to save the file wherever you would like and pass its location to the CLI using the `-c` option, such as:

    eslint -c myconfig.json myfiletotest.js

If you are using one configuration file and want ESLint to ignore any `.eslintrc.*` files, make sure to use `--no-eslintrc` along with the `-c` flag.

> In each case, the settings in the configuration file override default settings.

Author: As per my understandings, it refers to all the default settings for configuration files. Whichever way a configuration file is used, it is going to override the default settings already available to the users.

Please correct me if I'm wrong.

> In each case, the settings in the configuration file override default settings.

Author: Got it. Will remove the "default settings" from all the instances in this file.

### Comments in configuration files

> Both the JSON and YAML configuration file formats support comments (`package.json` files should not include them). You can use JavaScript-style comments or YAML-style comments in either type of file and ESLint will safely ignore them. This allows your configuration files to be more human-friendly. For example:

Author: Thank you for pointing this error out. This is something I wasn't aware of. If I edit it in the following way, will that work?

> Both the JSON and YAML configuration file formats support comments (`package.json` files should not include them). You can use JavaScript-style comments for JSON files and YAML-style comments for YAML files. On detecting comments in a file, ESLint will safely ignore them. This allows your configuration files to be more human-friendly.

Also, do you think we need to add one example each for JavaScript-style and YAML-style comments?

> Both the JSON and YAML configuration file formats support comments (`package.json` files should not include them). You can use JavaScript-style comments or YAML-style comments in either type of file and ESLint will safely ignore them. This allows your configuration files to be more human-friendly. For example:

Author: Awesome. Does the following content look good then? Don't want to make any technical errors, so I thought I'd get it reviewed first.

> Both the JSON and YAML configuration file formats support comments (package.json files should not include them). You can use JavaScript-style comments for JSON files and YAML-style comments for YAML files. On detecting comments in a file, ESLint will safely ignore them. This allows your configuration files to be more human-friendly.
> For JavaScript-style comments:

```js
{
    "env": {
        "browser": true
    },
    "rules": {
        // Override our default settings just for this directory
        "eqeqeq": "warn",
        "strict": "off"
    }
}
```

> For YAML-style comments:

```js
{
    "env": {
        "browser": true
    },
    "rules": {
        # Override our default settings just for this directory
        "eqeqeq": "warn",
        "strict": "off"
    }
}
```

> Both the JSON and YAML configuration file formats support comments (`package.json` files should not include them). You can use JavaScript-style comments or YAML-style comments in either type of file and ESLint will safely ignore them. This allows your configuration files to be more human-friendly. For example:

Reviewer 2: > On detecting comments in a file, ESLint will safely ignore them. 

Maybe, "ESLint safely ignores comments in configuration files."?

Also, the second example still looks like a JSON file. I'd suggest making it look more like YAML:

```yaml
env:
    browser: true
rules:
    # Override default settings
    eqeqeq: warn
    strict: off
```

```yaml
---
  root: true
```

For example, consider `projectA` which has `"root": true` set in the `.eslintrc` file in the `lib/` directory.  In this case, while linting `main.js`, the configurations within `lib/` will be used, but the `.eslintrc` file in `projectA/` will not.

```text
home
└── user
    └── projectA
        ├── .eslintrc  <- Not used
        └── lib
            ├── .eslintrc  <- { "root": true }
            └── main.js
```

The complete configuration hierarchy, from highest precedence to lowest precedence, is as follows:

1. Inline configuration
    1. `/*eslint-disable*/` and `/*eslint-enable*/`
    1. `/*global*/`
    1. `/*eslint*/`
    1. `/*eslint-env*/`
1. Command line options (or CLIEngine equivalents):
    1. `--global`
    1. `--rule`
    1. `--env`
    1. `-c`, `--config`
1. Project-level configuration:
    1. `.eslintrc.*` or `package.json` file in the same directory as linted file
    1. Continue searching for `.eslintrc` and `package.json` files in ancestor directories (parent has the highest precedence, then grandparent, etc.), up to and including the root directory or until a config with `"root": true` is found.

## Extending Configuration Files

> A configuration file can extend the set of enabled rules from base configurations.

Reviewer 2: Can we make this a bit clearer? Configurations include not just rules, but plugins, processors, environments, globals, and more. It might be more accurate to say that a configuration file can inherit all of the options in another configuration file and then override and modify those options? (Might need some better wording, but I think you get the idea.)

Author: I think I understand what you've mentioned here. Below is a modified version, lmk if it works:

> A configuration file, once extended, can inherit all the traits of another configuration file (including rules, plugins, and language options) and modify all the options.

Reviewer 2: Excellent!

The `extends` property value is either:

* a string that specifies a configuration (either a path to a config file, the name of a shareable config, `eslint:recommended`, or `eslint:all`)

> * an array of strings: each additional configuration extends the preceding configurations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* an array of strings where each additional configuration extends the preceding configurations
```

> ESLint extends configurations recursively, so a base configuration can also have an `extends` property. Relative paths and shareable config names in an `extends` property are resolved from the location of the config file where they appear.

Reviewer 2: It seems like we are missing an important piece of information here: the way that config names are resolved. So `example` is resolved to `eslint-config-example`, for example.

The `rules` property can do any of the following to extend (or override) the set of rules:

* enable additional rules
* change an inherited rule's severity without changing its options:
    * Base config: `"eqeqeq": ["error", "allow-null"]`

>     * Derived config: `"eqeqeq": "warn"`

Reviewer 2: We haven't introduced the term "derived config" anywhere, so I'm not sure what this means. It may be helpful to define each of these terms first to make the example clear.

Reviewer 2: All the terms are okay as long as we define them upfront.

    * Resulting actual config: `"eqeqeq": ["warn", "allow-null"]`
* override options for rules from base configurations:
    * Base config: `"quotes": ["error", "single", "avoid-escape"]`
    * Derived config: `"quotes": ["error", "single"]`
    * Resulting actual config: `"quotes": ["error", "single"]

> ### Using eslint-recommended

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using `eslint:recommended`
```

> An `extends` property value `"eslint:recommended"` enables a subset of core rules that report common problems, which have a checkmark (recommended) on the [rules page](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/). The recommended subset can change only at major versions of ESLint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using `"eslint:recommended"` in the `extends` property enables a subset of core rules that report common problems (these rules are identified with a checkmark (recommended) on the [rules page](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/)). The `eslint:recommended` config only changes with major versions of ESLint.
```

> If your configuration extends the recommended rules: after you upgrade to a newer major version of ESLint, review the reported problems before you use the `--fix` option on the [command line]((https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface)#fix), so you know if a new fixable recommended rule will make changes to the code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your configuration extends the `eslint:recommended`, be sure to review the reported problems after upgrading to a new major version of ESLint before you use the `--fix` option on the [command line]((https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface)#fix). Doing so ensures you'll be aware of the new changes ESLint might make to your code.
```

> The `eslint --init` command can create a configuration so you can extend the recommended rules.

Reviewer 2: This seems out of place here. Maybe we can just say:

```suggestion
Here's an example of extending `eslint:recommended` to override some of the default options:
```

Example of a configuration file in JavaScript format:

```js
module.exports = {
    "extends": "eslint:recommended",
    "rules": {
        // enable additional rules
        "indent": ["error", 4],
        "linebreak-style": ["error", "unix"],
        "quotes": ["error", "double"],
        "semi": ["error", "always"],

        // override default options for rules from base configurations
        "comma-dangle": ["error", "always"],
        "no-cond-assign": ["error", "always"],

        // disable rules from base configurations
        "no-console": "off",
    }
}
```

### Using a shareable configuration package

> A [sharable configuration](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/shareable-configs) is an npm package that exports a configuration object. Make sure the package has been installed to a directory where ESLint can require it.

Reviewer 2: We probably need to be more specific about the location of the package. Maybe we can just say that you should install it in your project root?

> The `extends` property value can omit the `eslint-config-` prefix of the package name.

Reviewer 2: I think this section needs to be moved up to be closer to the start of the section on `extends`

> The `eslint --init` command can create a configuration so you can extend a popular style guide (for example, `eslint-config-standard`).

Reviewer 2: Again, I don't think it's worth talking about `eslint --init` in this section. Everything that command does can be done by hand, so I'd suggest we focus on manual configuration edits here.

Example of a configuration file in YAML format:

```yaml
extends: standard
rules:
  comma-dangle:
    - error
    - always
  no-empty: warn
```

> ### Using the configuration from a plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using a configuration from a plugin
```

> A [plugin](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/working-with-plugins) is an npm package that usually exports rules. Some plugins also export one or more named [configurations](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/working-with-plugins#configs-in-plugins). Make sure the package has been installed in a directory where ESLint can require it.

Reviewer 2: Plugins aren't just for rules and are intended to provide all kinds of extensions to ESLint. So rather than saying plugins normally export rules and only sometimes export configs, maybe we can say that plugins export a number of things including rules and configs?

Author: Oh yes. This'll def make it much better. Will the following content work?

> A [plugin](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/working-with-plugins) is an npm package that can add various functions to ESLint. A plugin can perform numerous functions, including but not limited to the export of rules and [configurations](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/working-with-plugins#configs-in-plugins). Make sure the package has been installed in a directory where ESLint can require it.

```json
{
    "plugins": [
        "react"
    ],
    "extends": [
        "eslint:recommended",
        "plugin:react/recommended"
    ],
    "rules": {
       "react/no-set-state": "off"
    }
}
```

### Using a configuration file

The `extends` property value can be an absolute or relative path to a base [configuration file](#using-configuration-files). ESLint resolves a relative path to a base configuration file relative to the configuration file that uses it.

Example of a configuration file in JSON format:

```json
{
    "extends": [
        "./node_modules/coding-standard/eslintDefaults.js",
        "./node_modules/coding-standard/.eslintrc-es6",
        "./node_modules/coding-standard/.eslintrc-jsx"
    ],
    "rules": {
        "eqeqeq": "warn"
    }
}
```

### Using `"eslint:all"`

The `extends` property value can be `"eslint:all"` to enable all core rules in the currently installed version of ESLint. The set of core rules can change at any minor or major version of ESLint.

**Important:** This configuration is **not recommended for production use** because it changes with every minor and major version of ESLint. Use it at your own risk.

> If you configure ESLint to automatically enable new rules when you upgrade, ESLint can report new problems when there are no changes to source code, therefore any newer minor version of ESLint can behave as if it has breaking changes.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this means. Do you mean if you use `eslint:all`?

You might enable all core rules as a shortcut to explore rules and options while you decide on the configuration for a project, especially if you rarely override options or disable rules. The default options for rules are not endorsements by ESLint (for example, the default option for the [`quotes`](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/quotes) rule does not mean double quotes are better than single quotes).

> If your configuration extends all core rules: after you upgrade to a newer major or minor version of ESLint, review the reported problems before you use the `--fix` option on the [command line](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#fix), so you know if a new fixable rule will make changes to the code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your configuration extends `eslint:all`, after you upgrade to a newer major or minor version of ESLint, review the reported problems before you use the `--fix` option on the [command line](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#fix), so you know if a new fixable rule will make changes to the code.
```

Example of a configuration file in JavaScript format:

```js
module.exports = {
    "extends": "eslint:all",
    "rules": {
        // override default options
        "comma-dangle": ["error", "always"],
        "indent": ["error", 2],
        "no-cond-assign": ["error", "always"],

        // disable now, but enable in the future
        "one-var": "off", // ["error", "never"]

        // disable
        "init-declarations": "off",
        "no-console": "off",
        "no-inline-comments": "off",
    }
}
```

## Configuration Based on Glob Patterns

<b>v4.1.0+.</b> Sometimes a more fine-controlled configuration is necessary, for example, if the configuration for files within the same directory has to be different. Therefore you can provide configurations under the `overrides` key that will only apply to files that match specific glob patterns, using the same format you would pass on the command line (e.g., `app/**/*.test.js`).

> ### How does it work

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How overrides work
```

> * The patterns are applied against the file path relative to the directory of the config file. For example, if your config file has the path `/Users/john/workspace/any-project/.eslintrc.js` and the file you want to lint has the path `/Users/john/workspace/any-project/lib/util.js`, then the pattern provided in `.eslintrc.js` will be executed against the relative path `lib/util.js`.

Reviewer 2: Before going into how overrides work, I think it would be helpful to show an example.

Author: Do you think that moving the `### Example configuration` before `### How do overrides work?`, will take care of this issue?

Reviewer 2: Yes. I think I'd start with saying something like, "It's possible to override settings based on file glob patterns in your configuration by using the `overrides` key, like this:"

Then have the example and follow that with the content from this section.

Author: Awesome, thanks. Readjusting the content of this section then.

If you specified the [`--ext`](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#ext) command line option along with directories, the target files are only the files that have specified file extensions regardless of `overrides` entries.

## Personal Configuration Files (deprecated)

⚠️ **This feature has been deprecated**. This feature will be removed in the 8.0.0 release. If you want to continue to use personal configuration files, please use the [`--config` CLI option](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#-c---config). For more information regarding this decision, please see [RFC 28](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/28) and [RFC 32](https://github.com/eslint/rfcs/pull/32).

`~/` refers to [the home directory of the current user on your preferred operating system](https://nodejs.org/api/os.html#os_os_homedir). The personal configuration file being referred to here is `~/.eslintrc.*` file, which is currently handled differently than other configuration files.

> ### How does ESLint find personal configuration files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How does ESLint find personal configuration files?
```

If `eslint` could not find any configuration file in the project, `eslint` loads `~/.eslintrc.*` file.

If `eslint` could find configuration files in the project, `eslint` ignores `~/.eslintrc.*` file even if it's in an ancestor directory of the project directory.

> ### How do personal configuration files behave

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How do personal configuration files behave?
```

* **YAML** - use `.eslintrc.yaml` or `.eslintrc.yml` to define the configuration structure.
* **JSON** - use `.eslintrc.json` to define the configuration structure. ESLint's JSON files also allow JavaScript-style comments.
* **package.json** - create an `eslintConfig` property in your `package.json` file and define your configuration there.

If there are multiple configuration files in the same directory, ESLint will only use one. The priority order is as follows:

1. `.eslintrc.js`
1. `.eslintrc.cjs`
1. `.eslintrc.yaml`
1. `.eslintrc.yml`
1. `.eslintrc.json`
1. `package.json`

## Using Configuration Files

There are two ways to use configuration files.

The first way to use configuration files is via `.eslintrc.*` and `package.json` files. ESLint will automatically look for them in the directory of the file to be linted, and in successive parent directories all the way up to the root directory of the filesystem (unless `root: true` is specified). Configuration files can be useful when you want different configurations for different parts of a project or when you want others to be able to use ESLint directly without needing to remember to pass in the configuration file.

> The second way to use configuration files is to save the file wherever you would like and pass its location to the CLI using the `-c` option, such as:

Author: Oh this makes sense, yes.
I can change the `-c` to `--config`. Is that what you're suggesting? I'm sorry if I got it wrong.

> The second way to use configuration files is to save the file wherever you would like and pass its location to the CLI using the `-c` option, such as:

Reviewer 4: Yep, that’s precisely it!

    * Base config: `"eqeqeq": ["error", "allow-null"]`
    * Derived config: `"eqeqeq": "warn"`
    * Resulting actual config: `"eqeqeq": ["warn", "allow-null"]`
* override options for rules from base configurations:
    * Base config: `"quotes": ["error", "single", "avoid-escape"]`
    * Derived config: `"quotes": ["error", "single"]`
    * Resulting actual config: `"quotes": ["error", "single"]

### Using `eslint:recommended`

Using `"eslint:recommended"` in the `extends` property enables a subset of core rules that report common problems (these rules are identified with a checkmark (recommended) on the [rules page](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/)).

Here's an example of extending `eslint:recommended` and overriding some of the set configuration options:

Example of a configuration file in JavaScript format:

```js
module.exports = {
    "extends": "eslint:recommended",
    "rules": {
        // enable additional rules
        "indent": ["error", 4],
        "linebreak-style": ["error", "unix"],
        "quotes": ["error", "double"],
        "semi": ["error", "always"],

        // override configuration set by extending "eslint:recommended"

>         "for-direction": "off",

Author: Thank you!!
I was looking for a different example but couldn't find one. I was worried I might make a technical error. This is awesome.

  └── test.js
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Looks like we are missing the backticks around the “.eslintrc” and “root: true”

Author: Fixed it.
